A first draft of how to work with clients and SMEs (#432)
SuffolkLITLab/docassemble-AssemblyLine-documentation: docs/authoring/working_with_smes.md

sidebar_label: Working with a subject expert
slug: /authoring/working_with_smes
---

## Getting the project started

### Identify decision makers, team members, and sources of information

Identify an internal and external team for the project. It should include:

1. A project manager tasked with keeping the project on schedule. This can be either
   internal or external.
1. The developer or developers.
1. An identified subject matter expert or experts.
1. Key stakeholders who will need to sign off on the project or make decisions.

This is also a good time to identify primary and secondary sources that the team
can use to answer questions if an SME isn't readily available.

### Schedule a check-in cadence

Many projects require a check-in at a cadence of once a week. For slower projects,
once every 2 weeks or once a month may be sufficient. Pick a day of the week
and time in advance and set up a regular standing meeting on your calendar.

Check-ins should generally be focused on quick status updates and blockers and take from 15 
minutes to 1 hour, depending on their frequency.

Not everyone needs to attend the check-in meetings.

### Create a project communication system

> On the Assembly Line project, we default to using Kanban boards to track 

Reviewer: I'm probably getting into the productivity weeds, but I don't think a to-do/doing/done board actually counts as a Kanban board. Kanban is about workflow, not just columns and cards. The old Trello board was Kanban. I usually call any columns-and-cards board that is not a workflow "Kanban-style."

I doubt many others would care about or appreciate that distinction, though.

> On the Assembly Line project, we default to using Kanban boards to track 

Author: Kanban-style it is! No need to be inaccurate.

> On the Assembly Line project, we default to using Kanban boards to track 

Reviewer: I guess in the Agile world it's also a "scrum board," which might make more sense here even if we're not attempting to go full-Agile.

interview progress. We use these columns:

* Backlog, for cards that haven't been prioritized yet (they can represent ideas that need review)
* To-do
* Doing
* Blocked, for cards that can't be acted on because of a "blocker" (which might include waiting for an SME's response)
* Done

You can use our [GitHub project template](https://github.com/orgs/SuffolkLITLab/projects/22/views/2) as a starting
point for your project.

Using the GitHub project, you can track progress, assign deadlines to tasks, and have threaded conversations (once the cards are

> converted into issues).

Reviewer: I agree, but some of these instructions are built into the GitHub project template. [This one, for example.](https://github.com/orgs/SuffolkLITLab/projects/22?pane=issue&itemId=60119564) I would consider our public templates as part of our documentation and explain that anywhere we talk about our project management tools rather than duplicate documentation. We're more likely to update the templates and forget to update the documentation.

> converted into issues).

Reviewer 2: Are you saying that GitHub itself provides this card or that our project has added it? I tend to err towards linking to original sources. That is, in this case I meant that we link to GitHub's own documentation on how to turn a card into an issue. I suspect that card, if it is one from GitHub, is only one of GitHub's sources of that information. If that is the case, I would be concerned that GitHub would change the card  setup in the future. I'd link to a GitHub documentation page that I had more confidence in.

* Slack

May be useful for closer to real-time communication.

## Gather information

### Understanding the project scope

Meet early with the client or subject matter expert to talk through
the project's scope. In most projects, the client will have an existing
template or set of templates that they will want you to automate.

Read through the documents. Sketch out your understanding of the following 
key points:

1. What problem is the tool intended to solve?
1. Who is the most likely user of this tool? Possibilities often include:
        * An attorney or paralegal who is experienced in this area of work
        * A professional who may get light training (for example, a new employee
           or a volunteer in a clinic)
        * A litigant on their own.
1. What else do we know about the most likely user?
        * Are they dealing with a stressful or conflict heavy process?
        * Are they highly educated or likely to have a lower reading grade level?
1. Think through the [Legal app maturity model](https://suffolklitlab.org/legal-tech-class/docs/legal-tech-overview/maturity-model). What level form would be right for this project?

### Identify a project timeline

> Come up with a rough schedule with key milestones.

Reviewer: For reference, the template has [some advice on the MVP milestone](https://github.com/orgs/SuffolkLITLab/projects/22?pane=issue&itemId=61502012).

### Understanding success metrics

1. How will we know if the project is successful?
        * How much time does the process take now? What is the goal?
        * Who is unable to complete the process now? How will we know if they
          can complete it with assistance?
        * What is the total possible population the tool is targeting? (e.g., how many

>           of the documents are currently filed in a year? What percentage do we want to cover?)

Author: Not quite the same question, but good point. Could use an example here. The idea is, if the base rate is 10,000 eviction filings in a year, our tool should be consider a pretty big success if we get to 2,000 annual filings with our tool. We're not exactly trying to make more filings--just capture some percentage of the people who already need the document with our tool.

>         * What is the total possible population the tool is targeting? (e.g., how many
>           of the documents are currently filed in a year? What percentage do we want to cover?)

Reviewer 2: Maybe the below?

```suggestion
        * What is the total possible population the tool is targeting? (e.g., how many
          of the documents are currently filed in a year? How many of those documents should instead be filed through the new tool after the project is finished?)
```

> 1. If the project failed, what would you predict is the reason why?

Author: This is the idea: https://hbr.org/2007/09/performing-a-project-premortem

But since not everyone is familiar, I'll put a link in

### Document the existing process

1. What primary law sources and secondary sources are important for this project?
1. Who knows about the current process? Who else should we talk to?

> 1. What **steps** will the user have to take before they use the tool?

Author: I don't think this rephrasing matches the original intent of this bullet point--I literally mean walk someone through completing the current process, without judgment about what is easy or hard--but I'll try to keep your ideas here in mind.

> 1. What **steps** will the user have to take before they use the tool?

Reviewer 2: Sorry, the diff highlights the wrong stuff. I didn't rephrase anything. The original item is below the totally new item.
